# pandas-challenge

## School Distric Analysis

In this project for the Analysis of the School distric was generete a script code in the Jupyter notebook program to Perform the necessary calculations and then create a high-level snapshot of the district's key metrics in a DataFrame, this script includes the following information:
### Report descripton of the observable trends based on the data:
- PyCity Schools Analysis.

### District Summary:
- Total number of unique schools.
- Total students.
- Total budget.
- Average math score.
- Average reading score.
- % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math).
- % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading).
- % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math and reading).

### School Summary:
- School name.
- School type.
- Total students.
- Total school budget.
- Per student budget.
- Average math score.
- Average reading score.
- % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math).
- % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading).
- % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math and reading).

### Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing):
this script Sort the schools by the (% Overall Passing) in descending order.
### Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing): 
this script Sort the schools by the (% Overall Passing) in ascending order.
### Math Scores by Grade:
this script creates a DataFrame that lists the average math score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
### Reading Scores by Grade:
this script creates a DataFrame that lists the average reading score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
### Scores by School Spending: 
this script breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges per student.
### Scores by School Size: 
this script breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).
### Scores by School Type.

### To open a Python notebook (Jupyter Notebook) from your command line, follow these steps:
- Activate Your Environment (if using Conda): If you are using a Conda environment, make sure to activate it first. For example, if your environment is named dev, you would run: conda activate dev
- Navigate to Your Desired Directory: Use the cd command to change to the directory where the notebooks are located. For example: cd path/to/your/directory
- Launch Jupyter Notebook: Once you are in the correct directory, run the following command: jupyter notebook
  This command will start the Jupyter Notebook server and automatically open a new tab in your default web browser, displaying the Jupyter Notebook interface. From there, you can open this file.

License: Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

Acknowledgments: for this project some of the code was made from instructions for the solution by Steven Green (Class instructor).
